# Issue 29324: Don't use imports from rings.all in matrices

Issue created by migration from https://trac.sagemath.org/ticket/29561

Original creator: tscrim

Original creation time: 2020-04-24 02:06:52

CC:  caruso

This can cause import loops that are not naturally there. See, e.g., #21264


---

Comment by tscrim created at 2020-04-24 02:29:13

Changing status from new to needs_review.


---

Comment by tscrim created at 2020-04-24 02:29:13

Hopefully this will help untangle a bit of Sage's import hell too.
----
New commits:


---

Comment by caruso created at 2020-04-25 12:55:26

I know that they are not related to your changes but maybe you could also fix the pyflakes issues reported by the patchbot in this ticket:


```
git checkout patchbot/ticket_merged
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:145: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:184: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:223: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:261: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:301: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:343: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:387: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:452: local variable 'd' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:492: local variable 'd' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:536: local variable 'w' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:615: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:654: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:692: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:738: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:778: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:814: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:851: local variable 'd' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:913: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:952: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:994: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:1035: local variable 'd' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:1069: local variable 'd' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:1107: local variable 'w' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:1160: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used
src/sage/matrix/benchmark.py:1200: local variable 'v' is assigned to but never used

src/sage/matrix/matrix_integer_dense_hnf.py:17: 'sage.rings.rational_field.QQ' imported but unused
```


Apart from this, everything looks good to me.


---

Comment by mkoeppe created at 2020-04-25 16:25:59

Does this ticket fix a bug and should go into 9.1?


---

Comment by caruso created at 2020-04-25 19:05:40

No, it does not really fix a bug. I think it can wait for 9.2.


---

Comment by caruso created at 2020-04-26 09:22:43

Changing status from needs_review to positive_review.


---

Comment by vbraun created at 2020-05-02 21:58:19

Resolution: fixed
